I divide the game into the following phases. Once you pass specific milestones you move into the next phase. The nature of the game often changes.

* Beginning - this is start until you begin to define the structure of your base. Probably only lasts 10-15 cycles. Plan & think in sub-cycle timeframes. Focus on immediate survival needs.
* Early Game - This is when you start to build your initial base blocks. Start thinking  in a structured format and in cycle time frames. Increasing food stability, O2 generation, & power generation are the main focus.
* Mid Game/Manufacturing - Here you should have contained your initial base in insulated tiles. You should have a fully sustainable base with regards to oxygen, food, & power. You should be starting to make steel. Dups will spend lots of time in atmo suits. You now should have “large construction projects."
* Petroleum Phase - You have mastered the petroleum biome meaning that you are creating plastic constantly, can generate as much power as necessary, and have complete control of your environmentals especially temperature
* Space Phase- to infinity & beyond.

Here is my approach to mid game sustainability. I call this Maslow’s Hierarchy of ONI. Here are my milestone projects or tasks for the mid game. This is what you have to master.

1. Base - Fully contained & insulated main base. 12x4 Stacks or 24x4. Use 3-5 tiles between the stacks. You have the room. Use it. The spaces between the blocks are your ladders & fire poles. I would also save room for an eventual tube in the middle. You have the room use it. Goal is to get your base well planned. It is much easier to install utilities when you have clear vertical spaces.
2. Oxygen -This is when you have to install a SPOM. Build your own or steal one from the internet. Personally after a lot of tinkering and cooling I decided on a very simplistic approach to this problem. I have a complete blueprint of a “Full Rodriguez” and I just drop it in. Regardless of how you want to approach this you must have constant O2 generation at this point.
3. Power - In the mid game you need to be moving towards as much automated power generation as possible. You must have coal, especially if you ranch stone hatches. Just burn tons of coal. Make sure to use automation wires and smart batteries and you have this problem solved. Now simply increase units as you need more KW. I play a bit differently. I ALWAYS put my starter power plant in one of my lower 24x4 rooms. It is max size and I can have several levels with a carbon skimmer/water sieve loop at the bottom. 1 row of Natty gas and 1 row of coal. you have the space, use it. The materials will be plentiful eventually
4. Food - You must get to food sustainability. And it cant be meal wood or a meal wood derivative as that just burns up water. Easiest & first approach to learn is hatch ranching. You can easily ranch 5 stacks of 8 hatches for 40 total.
5. Plumbing - I use 4 sinks and 4 toilets in a 4x16 room. I only allow dups to exit past the sinks. This can then be blueprinted and copied. Showers, I put 4 in one room as that is my “schedule block”. 4 of all utilities and 4 dupes on a schedule. Means that i can have lots of dupes on different schedules using the same utilities. Also define plumbing fresh water distribution & p. water return. I use vertical rises for pipes and then horizontal distribution to facilities. If you want build large reservoirs away from your main base for the liquids. (eventually infinite liquids once the other bores you). Need chlorine cleaning room & water filtration potentially.
6. Ventilation - Here is where we start to consider HEAT. You will start to encounter this and you MUST solve this problem to get out of the phase. This is the KEY issue issue to deal with. The ONLY way to solve this is with Steam Turbines & Aquatuners. There are tons of options here and you can look at youtube for lots of samples. Personally, I use a radiator piping approach to cooling. I pass water through my base and control the temperature in the radiator with a ST/AQ. So I simply dump hot O2 into the base, knowing that my cooling loop will eat it right up. It makes for very predictable cooling.
7. Refinement - You must start making steel and plastic. This means you need to build an industrial block with integrated cooling in a location that won’t impact your main base with the temperatures, gases, & liquids. So generally build it just outside your atmo suit docks which you are also building. Start producing steel, lime, refined iron (if you dont have another supply).
8. Stations - Start with atmo suits. I love putting my atmo suit docks on the other side of a nature preserve. As the dups leave for tasks, they get a buff. To get to the next phase you have to go down, down, down. Find the oil. Setup a small temporary industry there and make some steel and plastic. You want just enough to make an initial steam turbine and aquatuner for your cooling loop (if necessary) or a new industrial area in the “suit” area.

Well that is it I think for mid-game. Next you enter the petroleum phase. Good luck. Peace. And remember, you are the boss of your own base .
